# 2021 SIG Architecture Annual Report

# To Do

- Pick graphs from [Devstats](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/12/dashboards?orgId=1&refresh=15m) to pull supporting data for your responses. 
- Schedule a time with your Steering liaison and other Chairs, TLs, and Organizers of your group to check-in on your roles as Chair or Working Group Organizer. If anyone would rather meet 1:1, please have them reach out to the liaison directly, we are happy to. We’d like to talk about: challenges, wins, things you didn’t know before but wish you did, want to continue in the role or help finding a replacement; and lastly any feedback you have for us as a body and how we can help you succeed and feel comfortable in these leadership roles. 
- do a call for comments period with your community for final review on your mailing list and slack channels; at least 72 hours

- each response should have supporting documentation, linked KEPs, graphs, data
- err on the side of being descriptive with your responses. End users and others that read this might not know our upstream acronyms, shorthand, or where to find a reference. 

## Operational

**How are you doing with operational tasks in sig-governance.md?**

**Is your README accurate? have a CONTRIBUTING.md file?**

Yes, our README is accurate. We do not have a CONTRIBUTING.md file, and so will add one.

**All subprojects correctly mapped and listed in sigs.yaml?**

Yes.

**What’s your meeting culture? Large/small, active/quiet, learnings? Meeting notes up to date? Are you keeping recordings up to date/trends in community members watching recordings?**

Our bi-weekly meeting is normally well attended, with approximately 20 individuals on a typical day, though it varies from a handful of folks to 40 or 50.

Subproject meetings are smaller, generally in the half dozen range.

**How does the group get updates, reports, or feedback from subprojects? Are there any springing up or being retired? Are OWNERS files up to date in these areas?**

We have a rotating schedule of subproject updates in the bi-weekly community meeting.

**How does the group get updates, reports, or feedback from working groups? Are there any springing up or being retired? Are OWNERS files up to date in these areas?**

We have not been getting updates from the working groups on any regular cadence.

**When was your last monthly community-wide update? (provide link to deck and/or recording)**

[December, 2020](https://youtu.be/rnNqcUeCD8E) at KubeCon NA, published on YouTube.

## Membership

**Are all listed SIG leaders (chairs, tech leads, and subproject owners) active?**

All SIG chairs are active and attend most bi-weekly full SIG meetings. We do not have separate tech leads.

For the conformance subproject, all owners are active in PR review and meeting attendance.

For the production readiness subproject, all owners are active in both KEP reviews and meetings.

For the enhancements subproject, all owners are all active.

For the API review subproject... [@dims or @liggitt please update]

For the code organization subproject, @dims and @liggitt run regular meetings and review PRs and issues, pulling
in other owners as needed.

**How do you measure membership? By mailing list members, OWNERs, or something else?**

Mailing list members, though based on bounces during calendar updates, there are quite a few out-of-date memberships.

**How does the group measure reviewer and approver bandwidth? Do you need help in any area now? What are you doing about it?**

SIG Architecture owns very little code. The API review and Production Readiness Review projects do have reviewers and approvers
for those specialized purposes. Each of those programs has a documented shadow program to add new reviewers and approvers.

**Is there a healthy onboarding and growth path for contributors in your SIG? What are some activities that the group does to encourage this? What programs are you participating in to grow contributors throughout the contributor ladder?**

**What programs do you participate in for new contributors?**

**Does the group have contributors from multiple companies/affiliations? Can end users/companies contribute in some way that they currently are not?**

Yes. Our chairs are from three different companies. We have many participants and subproject owners from those same companies and others.

## Current initiatives and project health

- Please include links to KEPs and other supporting information that will be beneficial to multiple types of community members. 

**What are initiatives that should be highlighted, lauded, shout out, that your group is proud of? Currently underway? What are some of the longer tail projects that your group is working on?**

**Year to date KEP work review: What’s now stable? Beta? Alpha? Road to alpha?**

**What areas and/or subprojects does the group need the most help with?**

**What's the average open days of a PR and Issue in your group? / what metrics does your group care about and/or measure?**

